Job Summary

This role is responsible for supporting financial management by analyzing, reporting, and reconciling financial and operational results, identifying and researching variances to plans, and providing recommendations to key stakeholders. The role engages in budgeting and forecasting processes while ensuring reporting compliance. The role supports priority projects and maintains strong relationships with internal stakeholders.

Responsibilities

Performs data extraction as well as diagnosis of financial drivers, and leverages analytics to make recommendations to key stakeholders.
Conducts comprehensive financial analysis for specific functions or business units, addressing financial business issues and providing valuable analytics to support key business initiatives.
Provides inputs for monthly review of expenses and capital for budgeting and forecasting process and analyzes variances with operational analytics and insight.
Interprets financial reports, including forecasts, budgets, income statements, balance sheets and cash flow documents.
Acquires a comprehensive understanding of the organization's financial processes and gains proficient knowledge of the company's operations and business.
Supports business by closing the books, analyzing variances and trends, and developing financial forecasts that are consistent with the business objectives of the organization.
Ensures compliance with reporting standards and corporate policies and the integrity of external and internal reporting.
Applies foundational principles and contributes proactively to projects through research and data analysis support, providing regular updates on accomplishments and impediments.
Supports priority projects with direction, maintaining relationships with internal stakeholders and sharing information via standardized reports.

Education & Experience Recommended
Four-year Degree in Business Administration, Economics, Finance, or any other related discipline or commensurate work experience or demonstrated competence.
Typically has 0-2 years of work experience, preferably in financial management, internal audit, accounting, or a related field.

Preferred Certifications
Certified Public Accountant (CPA)
Certified Financial Analyst (CFA)

Knowledge & Skills
Accounting
Auditing
Automation
Corporate Finance
Data Analysis
Economics
Finance
Financial Analysis
Financial Modeling
Financial Planning
Financial Services
Financial Statements
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Internal Controls
Investments
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Process Improvement
Profit And Loss (P&L) Management
SAP Applications
Variance Analysis

Cross-Org Skills
Effective Communication
Results Orientation
Learning Agility
Digital Fluency
Customer Centricity

Impact & Scope
Impacts own work and acts as a team member by providing information, analysis, and recommendations in support of team efforts.

Complexity
Learns to apply basic theories and concepts to work tasks.

Disclaimer
This job description describes the general nature and level of work performed in this role. It is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all duties, skills, responsibilities, knowledge, etc. These may be subject to change and additional functions may be assigned as needed by management.